Business Understanding
This stage is the most important because this is where the intention of the project is outlined. 
Foundational Methodology and CRISP-DM are aligned here. It requires communication and clarity. The difficulty here is that stakeholders 
have different objectives, biases, and modalities of relating information. They don’t all see the same things or in the same manner. 
Without clear, concise, and complete perspective of what the project goals are resources will be needlessly expended. 



Data Preparation 
Once the data has been collected, it must be transformed into a useable subset unless it is determined that more data is needed. 
Once a dataset is chosen, it must then be checked for questionable, missing, or ambiguous cases. Data Preparation is common to 
CRISP-DM and Foundational Methodology. 

Modeling 
Once prepared for use, the data must be expressed through whatever appropriate models, give meaningful insights, and hopefully new 
knowledge. This is the purpose of data mining: to create knowledge information that has meaning and utility. The use of models 
reveals patterns and structures within the data that provide insight into the features of interest. Models are selected on a portion 
of the data and adjustments are made if necessary. Model selection is an art and science. Both Foundational Methodology and CRISP-DM 
are required for the subsequent stage. 

Evaluation 
The selected model must be tested. This is usually done by having a pre-selected test, set to run the trained model on. 
This will allow you to see the effectiveness of the model on a set it sees as new. Results from this are used to determine efficacy 
of the model and foreshadows its role in the next and final stage. 

Deployment 
In the deployment step, the model is used on new data outside of the scope of the dataset and by new stakeholders. 
The new interactions at this phase might reveal the new variables and needs for the dataset and model. 
These new challenges could initiate revision of either business needs and actions, or the model and data, or both.

From understanding to approach:
1.Business understanding:
  what is the problem that you are trying to solve?
  
2.Analytic approach:
  How can you use data to answer the question?
  If the question is to determine probabilities of an action--->use a Predictive model
  If the question is to show relationships--->use a descriptive model
  If the question requires a yes/no answer--->use a classification model
  
  Machine Learning:
  1. Learning without being explicitly programmed
  2. Identifies relationships and trends in data that might otherwise not be accessible or identified
  3. Uses clustering association approaches
  
 3. Data requirements:
    Content, formats, representations suitable for decision tree classifier
    
 4. Data collection:
    Available data sources
    It's alright to defer decisions about unavailable data, and attempt to accquire it at a later stage.
    Merging data, eliminate redundant data
    The understanding of what the business wants and needs will determine what data is collected, from what sources, and by what methods. 
 
 5.Data Understanding 
Data understanding relies on business understanding. Data is collected at this stage of the process. 

CRISP-DM combines the stages of Data Requirements, Data Collection, and Data Understanding from the Foundational Methodology outline.

Is the data that you collected representative of the problem to be solved?

Descriptive statistics
  univariate statistics (mean, max...)
  pairwise correlations (redundant?)
  histogram (distribution)
Data quality
  missing values; Invalid or misleading values
Iterative data collection and understanding (more understanding, more refinement can be done to the model)

6. Data preparation
Examples of data cleansing: invalid values (2020 02 33); missing data; remove duplicates; formating(CA, CAN, CANADA)

Feature engineering is the process of using domain knowledge of the data to create features that 
make the machine learing algorithms work.

Feature engineering is critical when machine learning tools are being applied to analyze data.

7. Modeling

8. Evaluation
Does the model used really answer the initial question or does it need to be adjusted?

ROC curve; False-positive and False-negative type error

9. Deployment
Once the model is evaluated and the data scientist is confidnet it will work, it is deployed and put to
the ultimate test. Actual real-time use in the field

10. Feedback




